---
templateKey: topic
path: /topics/conflict-management
header:
  image: /img/solutions-impact-header.png
  title: Team Development
  subtitle: How to mobilize teams for maximum impact
solution: IMPACT
topic: Conflict Management
---

## IMPACT - Conflict Management

### Why

Most people tend to avoid conflict because they view them as negative
experiences that break the harmony of a group and threaten relationships and
hinder productivity. Although this is certainly true in some situations, teams
must accept the reality that conflicts are inevitable. However, conflicts, when
managed well, can be highly constructive and even beneficial to a team's
development and dynamics. Teams that have psychologically safe environments
founded on trust can foster a healthy culture of challenge and conflict that
actually spur teams on to operate more effectively and accomplish their goals
to make an impact. There are many aspects and models for conflict management,
but we will focus on the core components of defining the problem, listening
well, and proposing next steps.

### What We Offer

#### Define the problem

In our Conflict Management training, we will equip people with the tools and
frameworks to analyze and critically think through the core of the conflict -
that is, to define the problem. Sometimes, the core of the conflict gets
blurred out or misunderstood with confounding variables such as the delivery
and tone of the other teammate's message, our personal biases and preconceived
notions of others, etc. If the root problem can be diagnosed properly or
targeted, then there is a higher possibility for easing the conflict and
solving the problem. In our training we will provide exercises to help team
members identify problems in conflicts.

#### Listen well

After defining the problem, we will teach team members how to actively listen
to one another. Listening is a lost art, especially in the heat of the moment
in the middle of conflicts. We will provide training on active listening
strategies and how to identify keywords and signals to understand people
better. Listening well is one of the key skills for teams to function well
together, and we will provide the framework and activities to help members
learn how to do so.

#### Propose next steps

Finally, we will train team members how to come up with next steps to resolve
the conflicts. With the right diagnosis of the core problem in conflicts,
listening well, it is time to move forward with practical and actionable next
steps. Sometimes next steps require adjusting of expectations, strategies for
de-escalation, or simply verbal cues and questions to help pause in the heat of
the conflict. We will help each team member develop their next steps for their
most commonly encountered conflicts and provide a toolkit for conflict
resolution in the future.
