---
templateKey: topic
path: /topics/interpersonal-skills
header:
  image: /img/solutions-impact-header.png
  title: Team Development
  subtitle: How to mobilize teams for maximum impact
solution: IMPACT
topic: Interpersonal Skills
---

## IMPACT - Interpersonal Skills

### Why

Interpersonal interactions make up the foundation of teams.

- **A Gallup study found that extremely connected teams demonstrate a 21%
  increase in profitability.**

A team's success is not only dependent on the competence and effectiveness of
each of its members, but the interaction among the members. As team members are
constantly interacting with one another, interpersonal skills become vital to a
team's development and to the overall success of the organization. There are
several aspects of interpersonal skills that can be developed. In our training,
we focus on developing individual team members' self awareness, then we will
address team mindsets that turn corners and facilitate members working with one
another, and social aptitude for maximum team dynamics. All three of these
aspects of interpersonal skills are not mutually exclusive and are essential in
order for members of teams to effectively relate and work with one another
toward success.

### What We Offer

#### How to Develop Team Members' Self Awareness

Part of developing interpersonal skills is growing in self awareness. Without
an accurate perception and understanding of oneself, it is difficult to engage
meaningfully with others. In our training for interpersonal skills, we will
provide an assessment on where the individuals are in their self awareness, as
well as supplementary materials on personalities and working styles. Then, we
will focus on high-level strategies and tools to develop self awareness in
group settings. This involves helping the individual understand why and how
they process, respond, and engage in different situations with different types
of people. However, self awareness alone without action is futile, therefore,
we will also train team members on how to grow in decisiveness in their
personal responses and attitudes while working in teams.

#### Corner-Turning Team Mindsets When Working Together

Not only is it important for individual team members to develop in their self
awareness, but it is vital for teams to have a collective sense of unity by
having the same mindsets for their team. Team mindsets are values and attitudes
that the team members all agree to uphold while working with one another. In
teamwork contexts, it's inevitable for members to be blinded by their own
preferences and biases, but being able to commit to working with aligned team
mindsets will enable teams to "turn the corner" or overcome different hurdles
in interpersonal contexts while working together.

#### Social Aptitude for Maximum Team Dynamics

After equipping individuals on self-awareness and developing team mindsets as a
whole, we will equip teams on developing social aptitude through strategies and
frameworks to interact effectively with others, especially those who are
different from themselves. We will also equip teams on how to excel in
multicultural and diverse environments, to understand cultural norms and
cultural settings to accomplish maximum effectiveness in team dynamics.
Practical hands-on activities will also be implemented to help teams learn how
to build trust that is vital as a foundation for team interactions.
